Good morning.
Thanks for coming out this
last morning of the week.
I know it's been a busy week.
We've thrown a lot of
stuff at you this week.
But we're going to cover some
pretty important stuff this morning,
so I'm glad you guys all made it out.
As you may or may not know,
virtually every application
on the phone uses table views,
and virtually everyone that does
customizes them in some way.
So we're really going to get
into a lot of that this morning.
How to make the table view
do some pretty cool stuff,
and really customize the look
and feel of your application.
Didn't realize it advanced.
My name is Jason Beaver.
I work on the UI kit team.
There were a couple of sessions
earlier this week that talked
about basics of table views,
how to get some content in there.
If you're a desktop Cocoa developer,
you might have gone to the iPhone
for Mac developers session,
and they talked some basic stuff about
how it's different than the desktop
table view and how to load content in.
If you're new to the
Mac or iPhone platform,
you might have gone to the
Understanding iPhone Table Views session.
And again,
they cover the same basic stuff there.
We're going to kind of pick
up from where that left off.
We're not going to cover anything basic.
We're just going to jump right into how
to do some of the advanced features.
So we're going to cover
three basic areas.
We're going to talk about editing in the
table view and how you can control that.
We're going to talk about a couple
of different ways you can customize
the cells in the table view.
And then we're going to talk
about inserting and deleting.
So let's start with editing.
You've probably seen this.
This is the phone application.
When you edit this,
we indent the content,
make room for some editing
controls on the side.
We also add a few rows.
In other applications
like the World Clock,
you'll notice the time on the
right hand side and the day of the
week actually slides out to the
right when we go into editing mode.
Some things like the stock
applications actually don't
transition into editing mode.
You flip them over,
there's a different table view
that's already in editing mode.
So there's a lot of different
ways your users can interact with
the content of the table view.
So there's one method to put the
table view into editing mode,
and that is set editing animated.
The first argument says
whether you want to transition
into or out of editing mode.
And the last argument says whether you
want to do this in an animated fashion.
If the table view is on the screen
and the user is looking at it,
you probably want to do
that in an animated fashion.
But if you're getting ready to bring
that table view in from off screen,
or you're just launching the app and
you want to leave it in that state,
you probably want to do that
in a non-animated fashion.
So, we're going to show several kind of
examples of how we can control editing.
On the left-hand side,
there's a plain style table view,
and on the right is a
group style table view.
And if you just take a stock table view
and call set editing animated on it,
All the rows will inset a little bit,
and we'll see a bunch of remove
controls down the left-hand side.
We'll also see a bunch of reorder
controls down the right-hand side.
But you don't always want to
allow the users to edit every
single row in the table view,
so there's a delegate method
you can implement called
Table View Can Edit Row and Index Path.
So here we've got an example where a
delegate has implemented this method,
and we've turned no for
the first four rows.
When we transition into editing mode,
notice the first four
rows remain unchanged.
Now, if you don't do anything else,
you get the remove control
on the left-hand side,
but you can control that as well.
We have an editing
style that you can set,
and there are four or
three basic editing styles.
There's the none,
which indicates you don't
want anything to appear there,
and the user can't insert
or delete on this row.
And there's the delete control we saw,
and there's also an insert control.
So here we've implemented our delegate
to return none for the first three rows,
and delete for the next three,
and insert for the remaining.
And as we transition into editing mode,
you'll see how that looks.
Notice that when we said on the group
style that you can't edit a row,
the content doesn't inset.
Excuse me, if you do say it can edit,
but you return an editing style of none,
it will inset.
You can also control whether that reorder
control appears on the right-hand side on
a per row basis using the delegate method
table view can move row at index path.
Here we've specified that the
first four rows cannot be moved,
and when we transition into editing mode,
you'll see there's no reorder
control over on the right.
So in the group style table view,
there's one additional
thing you can control,
which is should that rounded rectangle
indent when we go into editing mode?
You notice in the stocks application,
the editing controls appear
inside that rounded rectangle.
So there's a delegate method you can
implement called table view should
indent while editing row and index path.
So here we've got group style table view.
And on the left hand side,
we're going to specify
that it should not indent.
And on the right hand side,
we'll specify it does.
And you can see how the
content still insets,
but the rounded rectangle stays the same.
If you implement this on
a plain style table view,
it doesn't actually do anything.
So everything up to this point has been
about how to control the appearance
of the table view and each individual
row while going into editing mode.
Now that you're in editing mode,
the user can interact with those
editing controls on the left.
And by default,
if they hit the delete control,
a little delete button will animate
it on the right to confirm that.
If they hit the insert control,
you're asked directly to deal with that.
But in either case,
you're going to get sent a
table view commit editing style
for row and index path method.
And let's look at a little sample
implementation of what you might do here.
In this case,
we're only handling the delete,
but you could do a similar
thing for the insert.
The first thing you need to do is
delete the object from your model.
Because when you next tell the
table view to delete that row,
we're gonna turn around and query
you about your model to make
sure we've got everything right.
And the remaining thing is you need to
tell the table view to delete the row.
And you do this by calling
the delete rows at index path
with row animation method.
We'll cover this in a little
more detail a little later.
But basically this will tell the
table view to animate that row out.
You also need to handle the case
where the user is reordering using the
reorder controls over on the right.
And you do this with the TableView move
row at index path to index path method.
This implementation is pretty simple.
All you have to do is update your
model to reflect the new state,
because visually the user's already
moved and dropped that row there,
so visually the table view already
reflects the new destination.
So you just need to update
your model to match that.
Now, every point in the table view might
not be a valid drop point for that
row that the user's trying to reorder,
so you can control this using the table
view target index path for move from row
at index path to proposed index path,
which is quite a mouthful.
Here's a little sample
implementation of that.
You basically first need to
validate that drop point.
Now, this validate reorder
destination for row method is
something you'd need to provide.
It's not something you can
call on our objects because we
don't know where it might be a
valid drop point in your model.
And if that's not a valid drop point,
you just need to return an alternate one.
So again, we call this method alternate
reorder destination for row.
That would be something you'd provide.
But if that is an okay place to drop it,
all you need to do is return
that proposed destination index
path that was passed into you,
and we'll open up a gap at that location.
So we're going to look at a demo now.
If you've come to one of several sessions
earlier in the week where we've been
building this recipes application,
we're going to sort of finish it up a
little bit this morning by adding the
ability to edit a couple of places.
So the first thing we're going to do
is in that recipes list at the top,
we're going to allow users to
delete the various recipes.
And in the detail pane,
we're going to allow the user to delete
some of the individual ingredients.
Let's just remind everybody
where we're starting out with.
So we have a recipes application here.
It's got a top-level list of recipes.
Each row has a picture and a recipe name.
And if we click on one of these,
there's a detail view where
we can see a category,
an ingredient list, instructions,
and there's a few other
things we can do here as well.
So the first thing we want to do is
in that top level view controller,
which is our recipes list
table view controller,
we need to put an edit button.
So we'll specify that the
navigation item's left bar
button is an edit button item.
And because we're a
table view controller,
this will automatically transition our
table view in and out of editing mode.
But we need to handle those two delegate
methods that we're going to get when
users delete or reorder recipes.
So we're going to start by
implementing the table view
commit editing style method.
We're only going to handle
the delete in this case,
so we'll check to make sure
we are getting the delete.
We'll simply remove the object from
our recipes at the index as specified.
And then we'll tell the table view to
delete that row with row animation left,
which will cause it to
slide out to the left.
Scroll up here?
Okay, sorry.
We also need to implement the
delegate method to handle reordering.
So we'll implement the table view move
row at index path to index path method.
Let me, yeah,
we'll bring these down a little bit
so everybody can see what these are.
So we need to get the recipe
that's represented by--
that we're looking at here.
And we need to remove that object from
the recipes at the index where it was,
and just add it back at the new location.
We need to do a similar thing over in
the recipe detail view controller so that
we can reorder that list of ingredients.
So in our init with style,
we'll also add an editing button in,
this time on the right side.
And we'll implement those
same two delegate methods.
The table view commit editing
style for row and index path.
And here we're going to check to see if
the section is the ingredients section,
and also check the editing
style to make sure it's delete.
And if it is,
we'll remove that ingredient at that
index and tell the table view to
delete the row at that index path.
We also need to implement
the move row at index path.
And we'll just get the ingredient
that was specified there,
remove that from the ingredients list,
and add it back at the new location.
So if we run the demo now,
so you have an edit control,
and if we click on that,
we'll transition into editing mode.
And if we go into a particular recipe,
we can transition into editing mode now.
And we can reorder these
and delete these as well.
If you notice down in the detail,
we have edit controls everywhere
on our category and instructions.
We really don't want that.
We really only want the user
to be able to delete the
rows in the ingredients list.
So let's see how we would fix this.
We want to implement one
additional delegate method.
That's the table view editing
style for row and index path.
And if the index path dot section
is the ingredient section,
so we're looking at a row
in the ingredient section,
we're going to return
editing style delete.
Otherwise,
we're going to return editing style none.
So now let's see how that looks.
So it looks better,
but we still have reorder
controls everywhere.
We really only want them
to reorder ingredients.
So let's step back and also
implement the table view can
move row and index path method.
Again, we'll check to see if we're
looking at the Ingredients section.
If so, we'll say yes, that can be moved.
Otherwise, we can't move that row.
So let's see how this looks.
Okay, this looks pretty good.
So let's see,
we can pick up a row and reorder it,
but ooh, we can actually drag this
down into other sections.
That's probably also not what we want.
So let's go implement that
additional delegate method to
control where is a valid drop point.
So this is the table view,
target index path for move from row
at index path to proposed index path.
We'll check to see if the place we're
trying to drop the section for that
is prior to the ingredients section.
We'll just open a gap at the very
first row of the ingredients section.
That's row zero in the
ingredients section.
And if we're trying to drop at a section
that's after the ingredients section,
we'll just open a row at the end,
basically the last row in
the ingredients section.
Otherwise, we'll just return the
one that's passed in.
So if you're within
the ingredient section,
we'll just open a row
right below your finger.
All right, let's try this now.
Still pick up a row here, but good.
I can't drag it down here.
I can't drag it up here.
If I let go,
it'll snap back to the gap we opened.
All right, let's go back to slides.
So now we're going to get into
a little bit about how you can
customize the cells in your table view.
And there's, like I mentioned before,
two ways.
You can just add subviews indirectly,
and you can subclass the cell.
So let's first talk about how to
add subviews directly to the cell.
I want to briefly cover again
sort of the anatomy of a cell.
If you went to the
Understanding Table Views session,
you're familiar with this slide.
On the left hand side is an image,
and in the middle is a text label
that will stretch to fill the full
width if there isn't an image.
And on the right is an accessory view.
There's several built-in types,
and you can of course put
your own views over there.
But in the middle,
that you can't really see,
is a content view.
And this content view is where you're
going to add your own subviews.
Because remember,
a cell on the iPhone is actually a view,
and so you can return an
entire view hierarchy here,
and it'll get placed at the
appropriate spot in the table view.
The content view will inset automatically
as you go into and out of editing mode.
So if you put your sub views in there and
set up appropriate auto resizing masks,
they'll move around as appropriate
to stay within that content view.
Here's what it looks
like in a group style.
It's basically entirely the area
inside the rounded rectangle,
but when you transition
into editing mode,
we'll make room for some
controls on the left and right.
So let's look at a rather complex cell.
This is one of the YouTube cells.
Everything to the left of that
accessory view is the content view.
And if we sort of break this down,
you'll see we have a content
view that fills that entire area,
and it has a bunch of sub views,
basically labels, image views,
a little rating control.
So great,
we know we're going to add these
sub views to the content view,
but how do we configure these
for optimal performance?
If you went to any of several
performance sessions this week,
you know we're really performance
sensitive on the device,
and we need to do everything we
can to make performance fast.
So the first thing you need to
do is make sure all of these
views you add are opaque.
Now, at first this seems like
maybe not what you want,
because when we select,
we put this nice blue
gradient behind the row,
and you want to make sure that you
don't obscure part of that with a big,
you know, solid opaque rectangle.
But the table view takes care
of a lot of this for you.
It will actually crawl through
the entire view hierarchy,
marking views non-opaque when they're
a sub-view of a row that's selected.
Also make sure the backgrounds are
all clear and do some other cleanup.
And then we'll put all that
back when the row is no longer
selected so you get nice,
fast scrolling performance.
You want to make sure that those
rectangles or those subviews have the
same background color as your cell.
Now this is typically white.
And you want to specify an
alternate highlight display.
So here's an example.
This is out of the Settings application.
If you look at that middle row where
it says Show and 50 Recent Messages,
Notice that the labels are black
on the left-hand side and blue
over on the right-hand side.
- But when we select those,
we want them to go to white.
So all you need to do to do this,
is, if you're using a label,
set the highlighted text color.
If you have your own control,
you just need to make sure that
control has a highlighted property,
and set some alternate
display when that's set.
And if you watch carefully
as this row deselects,
it'll do that in an animated fashion,
and when we get to right at
the midpoint of the animation,
we'll toggle that highlighted flag,
and all your controls will be asked to
redraw with the new highlighted state.
And then once the animation completes,
we'll go through,
mark everything opaque again,
reset the background colors, so again,
you get nice, fast scrolling performance.
So we're going to look at
another little demo here.
We're going to continue to
extend the recipes application.
In the ingredients list,
we're going to add an amount
field over on the right.
So we're in our Recipe
Detail View Controller.
We're going to be adding a subview here,
and so we need a way to get a hold of
that later when we're reusing that cell.
So we're going to add a tag that
we'll just assign to that cell,
and then we can access it later.
Now in our cell for row
at index path method,
we're going to check to see if we're
dealing with the ingredients section,
because we want to return a
different type of cell in this case.
So we'll create a different
ingredient cell identifier to
identify those types of cells.
And we're going to attempt to dequeue
a reusable cell with that identifier.
And if we don't get one,
we'll allocate a new one.
This is basically the same pattern
you've been seeing all week.
We're then going to add an
amount label over on the right.
So this first line just
creates a rectangle for that,
and then this will allocate that label.
And we'll set the auto-resizing mask
so there's a flexible left margin.
So as the cell goes into editing control,
that'll stay sort of pinned to the
right side of that content view.
We'll assign it a tag, again,
so we can find it later.
And we'll set its alignment
to text align right.
This will keep it no matter
what we put in there,
it'll stay right aligned with
the edge of that content view.
We'll set a text color here
to that bluish color that
you've seen a lot of places.
And we'll set that highlighted text
color so that when the row is selected,
we'll toggle over to a white color.
And at this point we'll just add that
as a sub-view of our content view.
And then release the label.
So now we have a cell,
whether we just created it
or whether we dequeued it,
we need to fill it in.
So we're going to get the
Ingredients Dictionary,
and we're just going to use
the cells built-in label to
specify the ingredient name.
And then we're going to ask
the cell for the view with tag,
amount tag, to get a hold of that amount
label that we threw in there.
And we're just going
to put the amount in.
This amount's already in our model.
So all we need to do at this
point is return this cell.
Now, this is for the Ingredients section,
so we can come down here below where we
were handling the Ingredients section.
We don't need to handle it here
now since it's handled above.
All right, now we've got the amounts
over on the right hand side.
Notice as we transition into
and out of editing mode,
Those automatically stay
against the right-hand side.
All right, let's go back to slides.
So that's great, it's really easy to do,
but sometimes you need a little
more control of what happens when
you go into or out of editing mode,
or some other state changes in your cell.
This is when customizing your cells
by subclassing is a great way to go.
So, how do we do this?
Well,
the first thing is that your content's
added in exactly the same way.
When you create your subclasses cell,
you're still going to create
separate views and add those as
subviews to the content view.
But now you have some control
over the positions of those
things as state changes,
because you can simply override the
appropriate methods and reposition
these things as appropriate.
So I mentioned that world clock example.
Again, notice that the time and the day
of the week slide out to the right.
We couldn't have done this
by just adding those views as
sub views of the content view.
We really needed some control
there to cause them to move
outside the visible area when
we transition into editing mode.
There's one caution though.
If you subclass cell,
and it is just a view,
and views implement draw rect,
you're not going to get the
behavior you expect if you
override draw rect in your cell.
And the reason is that when
a user selects that cell,
we insert that blue gradient.
That's inserted as a view
right above your cell,
but below the content view.
So that's actually going to
obscure any drawing you try
to do directly in your cell.
If you find you need
to do custom drawing,
it's really easy.
You can just create a
view to do that drawing,
and add that view as a
subview of the content view.
Another thing you might need
to do when you subclass cell
is do a little additional
cleanup when the cell is reused.
Your table view cell has a
method called prepare for reuse.
We call this basically as soon as
the cell disappears out of the view
and is thrown in the reuse queue,
we call prepare for use to allow
the cell to clean up a little bit.
If you have additional
cleanup you need to do,
you have to reset some things in
your cell to a default state so
that the next time it's reused,
you know the position and
size and color of everything.
You can override this method,
do whatever little bit of
cleanup you need to do there.
said reset those to the default values,
but you need to make sure you
always call super when you do this.
UI Table View Cell does its own clean up,
and if you don't do that,
can't guarantee the state of the cell.
So we're going to continue to
extend the recipes demo now.
We're going to take that
top level recipes list,
and we're going to create a custom
subclass of table view cell,
so that instead of just the
image of the recipe and the name,
we'll also see a
description and a prep time,
and we'll do some cool things
as we transition it out
So we'll go back to the recipe
list table view controller,
because this manages that
top level list of recipes.
And in our cell for row,
we used to just create a
standard table view cell and
set the text and image on it.
So we're going to throw
away all of this code.
And instead,
we're going to create an instance
of a recipe table view cell,
which we'll get to in just a minute.
So the pattern will look the same.
We'll attempt to dequeue one of those.
If we can't find one,
we'll allocate a new one.
Because this is our own class now,
we can set a property on that.
for the recipe,
and we can just fill in that recipe,
and the cell will know how
to extract the bits it needs.
So we can now just return that cell.
So let's go look at this
recipe table view cell.
Subclass of UI table view cell,
but we're going to need a few little
additional instance variables here.
The first is the recipe
that was just assigned,
and then we'll go ahead and
create instance variables for
the four pieces that we need
to display the bits of content.
will also define the
property that can be set,
that's set by the recipe
list table view controller.
So we've got a few defines at the top
that we'll use to position some things.
But basically nothing
else is in this class.
So we need to create all of those views.
So in our knit with frame,
we'll first create the image view.
and add that as a sub-view.
Now notice we passed in CG Rec 0.
We haven't yet tried to position it.
We're going to override layout sub-views,
and I'll talk about that in a little bit,
to position all these things.
Next,
we're going to create that name label.
It's again just a label
and it's with the CG0,
Erect0.
We're going to set its font,
because we don't want the
default font we get here.
We want to use something smaller to
make room for a description below that.
We'll set its text color to black,
and its highlighted text color to
white so that it highlights properly.
And we'll add that as a
sub-view of our content view.
Now we're going to have similar blocks
of code here for a description label.
and a prep time label.
And the only difference with
the prep time label is that's
going to be right aligned.
So we need to figure out what the frames
of all of those controls are going to be,
both in and out of editing mode.
So we're going to write a few little
convenience methods to do that for us.
So the first is the Image View Frame.
And if we are in editing mode,
we're going to return one rectangle.
And the only real difference between
that and the one that we return if
we're not in editing is we're going
to get this little editing inset,
so things look nicely aligned.
We'll have similar methods
here for the Name Label Frame,
the Description Label Frame,
and the Prep Time Label Frame.
So now we actually need
to position these things.
And the way you do that in UIKit is to
override layout sub views in your view.
You need to always call super,
make sure anything else that's
in there gets laid out properly.
And then all we're going to do is
call set frame on each of these
things and pass in the frames
that we compute in each of these
convenience methods we just wrote.
And notice we didn't have
to take care of doing any
animation or anything like that.
The reason for this is when
you call set editing animated,
we'll call layout subviews inside
that within an animation block.
So if you just specify
the frame that you want,
or any other attributes that
are animatable you want,
we'll actually animate all those for you.
We also need to define the
methods for that property,
so we'll add a set recipe
that fills in the recipe IVAR,
and then extracts the bits we need,
the thumbnail image, the name,
the description, and the prep time,
and assigns those to the
appropriate views on screen.
And of course,
we need a getter for our property.
We added a few IVARs,
we need to make sure we clean those up.
Let's take a look at
what this looks like now.
That looks a lot nicer.
We've still got our
image now and our name,
but now we've got this great description
and some information the user can
use to figure out if maybe this is
going to take too much time tonight.
Let's see what happens when
we go into editing mode.
It's starting to look kind of busy.
So, when we're in editing mode,
I don't think we really need
to see maybe the prep time.
So, let's see how we would take that
out when we go into editing mode.
- We basically need to go
into our layout sub views,
and just say if we are in editing mode,
we want to set the alpha
of that prep time to zero.
And if we're not in editing mode,
we want it to be one,
so it's fully opaque.
Let's see what this looks like.
There we go.
So now that cleans it up,
looks a little nicer when
it's in editing mode,
but if you notice,
that's actually fading in and out.
Again,
we call your layout subviews within
the context of an animation block,
so anything that you set in there
that's animatable automatically
will be animated properly.
All right.
So we talked about a couple of
ways to customize your cells.
So let's briefly cover why you might
want to choose one versus the other.
Any time your content can
be completely specified,
the layout of that content can be
specified with auto-resizing masks,
that might be a good candidate to do
it just by adding those sub views.
And anytime you don't need to modify
the default behavior of the cell,
in that ingredient cell we did,
we really just needed to add a label over
there and make sure it indented properly.
We didn't really need
a subclass to do that.
This was a great candidate for just
adding subviews into the content view.
But any time you do need that
custom layout code in that top
level cell that we defined,
we really did kind of want that
prep time level to fade out.
We might have wanted it to
slide completely off the screen,
things like that.
This is a great time to subclass.
And there's other things you might want
to do to change the behavior of that.
You might want to override what
happens when the cell goes into
editing mode or other state changes.
Do whatever you'd like there.
Those are great times when
you'd want to subclass.
So when you're subclassing,
you very frequently are gonna be
dealing with multiple use identifiers.
This has been covered
a little bit briefly,
but I just wanna reiterate it.
Here we have,
The settings application,
and there are several different,
or a couple different types of cells.
All the things at the top that are
in that orange rectangle have sort
of a similar appearance to them.
They have a black label on the
left and a blue label on the right.
In the case of that ad account,
that just doesn't have a value to it.
Any cell that you use there could
be used for any of those positions.
So when you need a cell there,
if you have a reuse identifier
defined for that type,
you can reuse any one of those cells.
The ones at the bottom also
have their own sort of type.
A label on the left and
a switch on the right.
And again,
anyone there can be reused at any
other position in the table view.
So, we want to make sure we have
really good scrolling performance.
And there was a great session yesterday,
which I'll talk about a little bit here,
that covers some of this.
And we want to make sure
We're always reusing cells.
We've reiterated this over and over.
There's absolutely no way to
get good scrolling performance
without reusing cells.
The cost, it's not just the cost
of allocating the cells,
it's the cost of allocating the
core animation backing stores
for all the pieces in that cell.
Pushing all those things
across to the graphics card,
it's all very expensive.
When you're reusing a cell,
we want to try to avoid re-layout.
A good example of this might
be if you have a label,
and you're putting a new value in
it each time you reuse the cell,
you probably don't want to cause, like,
size to fit on that,
which would change the size
of that label each time.
Doing that will invalidate the
Core Animation Backing Store,
cause us to create a new one,
just the same as creating
a brand new label will.
In this case,
you probably want to try to create that
label to be whatever size you need to
display any row in your table view,
and leave it that size so that we
can just reuse that backing store.
And again,
make sure these things are opaque.
Even the small amounts of transparency
have noticeable impacts on scrolling.
Sometimes you can't avoid it,
but try really hard to figure
out ways to do your own,
use custom images or whatever you need
to give the appearance of translucency,
but still have opaque views.
This is that performance
session I mentioned.
If you missed this,
I really urge you to go take a
look at this when it's posted.
The Optimizing Performance in
iPhones application,
there was a lot of great
tips and tricks there,
as well as tools you can use to see
where your apps are slowing down.
So the last thing we're going to talk
about is how to insert and delete things.
We've seen a lot of applications
where when somebody needs to
change what's in a table view,
they call reload data.
And while this works,
it's a pretty expensive way to update
the content in your table view.
We end up having to throw
a lot of things away,
recreate them.
And again, performance is pretty
limited on this device.
And so as much as possible,
we want to avoid that.
So we've provided some APIs to
allow you to just insert and delete
rows directly in a table view,
and not have to reload.
So the first is insert rows at
index path with row animation.
First argument there is an array.
So you can specify an arbitrary
set of rows to be inserted,
all with the same row animation.
There's a corresponding
delete rows at index path,
so you can specify an arbitrary
set of rows to be deleted.
And our table view supports sections,
so we have a corresponding set of
methods to insert entire sections
and delete entire sections,
again in an animated fashion.
Now sometimes you need to do both an
insert and a delete at the same time.
If you need to do that,
we have some methods that you
can use to wrap all these,
begin updates and end updates.
So you can call begin updates,
insert and delete an arbitrary
set of sections and rows,
and then call end updates
and all of those animations
will happen at the same time.
And at the end of this,
whether you call one of these methods
directly to just insert a row,
or you call begin updates and do a whole
bunch of stuff and call end updates,
at the end of this,
the table view's state
internally is already the final
state of all those animations.
So what this means is, even while those
animations are in flight,
you can turn around and call additional
methods to insert or delete more rows.
They can even be the rows
that are still animating in.
So for example,
a row could be animating in,
you could turn around
and tell it to delete it,
and it'll animate on out,
right from wherever it
happens to be already.
So most of those methods take this
table view row animation argument.
There's five things
you can specify there.
The first is a fade.
So for example, if you're animating in,
that row will fade in as the
other rows move out of the way.
You can also specify one of
the four cardinal directions
to cause that row to slide.
For example, if you pick the table
view row animation right,
and you're inserting,
it'll animate in from the right.
And if you're deleting,
it'll animate out to the right.
So let's now look at how to do
insertion/deletion in our recipes list.
The one thing we haven't done in
our recipes application is allow
the user to add an ingredient.
We want to do this a lot like
the phone application does it,
where when we go into editing
mode on that ingredients list,
we want to add a row at the bottom
with a plus sign next to it that
lets us add a new ingredient.
Can we get the demo machine?
OK, so we're going to go into our
Recipe Detail View Controller.
We're going to override what happens
when we go into editing mode.
Provide our own implementation
for set editing.
And we're going to call begin updates,
because we want to insert that
row-- or insert or delete that row,
depending on whether we're going
into or out of editing mode.
We want to call super set
editing animated to make sure
the table view updates properly,
and any other state that
needs to get set is reflected.
And then we're just going to create
that array representing the index
path we're going to be manipulating.
So that's just an array
with one index path,
and that's an index path that
specifies the one row past the
end of the ingredients list
in the ingredients section.
And if we're going into editing mode,
we want to tell the table view to
insert rows at that index path,
and we'll specify--
Row animation top,
so it looks like it sort of
slides out from the row above it.
And when we're going out of editing mode,
we just want to delete that row.
Again, with row animation top,
so it looks like it slides back
up under the rows that are there.
And then we want to call end
updates to kick off that animation.
So now we've told the table view
that we want to add a row there,
but our model has to reflect this,
because the table view is going to
turn around and ask us for information
about that newly inserted row.
So the first thing we want to do is in
our number of rows in section method,
here in our ingredients section,
when we're in editing mode,
we want to return one additional row.
And in our cell for row
at index path method,
here's where we're populating the
value of that ingredients cell,
but now we're going to come through
this for a row that actually
isn't in that ingredients array.
So we're going to do a check here
to see if the row that we're asking
for is within that ingredients list.
and only then will we get the name
and amount out of the ingredient.
If it's not,
We're going to assume
it's that last row there,
and we're just going to set the
cells text to add ingredient.
Now we might be reusing this row,
so we need to make sure we
get that amount label and set
its value to the empty string.
We also want there to be a plus
sign to the left of that new row.
So in our editing style
for row at index path,
here we've said that if it's
in the ingredient section,
we want to be delete, but we want to make
one small change here.
If the row that we're
looking at is that last row,
one past the end of the
number of ingredients,
we're going to specify
the insert editing style.
So when we go into editing mode, great,
we've got this extra row that appears
when we go in and out a couple of times,
so you can see how that animates.
It sort of appears to slide
out from the rows above it,
and it's got the
appropriate editing type.
We've got a reorder control on that,
which is probably not what we want.
So let's go back.
And go to the can move row at index
path and put a similar check in here.
The row we're looking at is that one
that represents the add ingredients.
We'll just return no to indicate
that row's not reorderable.
We also don't want the user
to be able to drag one of the
ingredients below that add
[Transcript missing]
Remember this first set of if blocks
checks to see if the section is before
or after the ingredients section.
So if we get past that,
we're definitely in the
ingredients section,
but we want to make one more check here.
We want to see if the proposed
destination index path is greater
than that last row of the ingredients.
And if that is,
we want to just return that last row.
Okay, so now let's go into editing here.
Notice we don't have the
reorder control there,
and if I try to pick up one of these
other rows and drag it down here,
it'll just open a gap right
above the add ingredient row,
so we can't drag
anything down below that.
So we now want to allow the
user to select those rows in
the Ingredients section so that
they can edit those ingredients.
So Table View by default doesn't let you
select rows when you're in editing mode,
but there's a method to override this.
We just need to set the property,
allows selection during editing to yes.
And then we need to make
a couple of changes.
The first is in our will
select row and index path.
This block of code says we don't
allow ingredients to be selected,
so when we're not in editing mode,
we allow everything but
ingredients to be selected.
But we want to flip that
when we're in editing mode.
So we'll create an if block,
and if we are editing,
will say if the section
that we're looking at is
not the ingredients section,
deselect the row, return nil.
Otherwise, return the index path.
And then if we are not in editing,
we'll do the code that was here before.
Finally,
in our did select row at index path,
we've never had to handle the
ingredients section here before
because we didn't allow selection,
but now we do.
So we'll add one more else clause here.
We're in the Ingredients section.
We'll create a new view controller,
which is the Ingredient
Detail View Controller.
We'll assign its recipe.
And then if it's one of those rows where
there's already an ingredient displayed,
will get that ingredient and set that
ingredient on that view controller.
Otherwise,
there won't be an ingredient there,
and this means we want to add a new one.
Okay, so let's go in here.
Go into editing mode.
Now we can click on this, cloves like,
good, we can change this,
maybe make this a half teaspoon
of cloves if we'd like.
Maybe we want to add an ingredient.
I tried these.
There's something that's clearly missing.
So we'll try that.
I really like bacon,
so I'm going to do about a pound of that.
Lovely.
All right.
And we're done.
So we talked about a bunch of stuff
about how to control the table view,
do a lot of great customization
of the table view.
This sample's available.
I urge you to go download it,
take a look at it, try to understand how
we're doing everything,
and then go out and build some really
great user interfaces with table views.
If you need more information,
you can contact Derek Horn.
He's the application
framework evangelist.
There's also documentation
on the website.
There's a lab for this immediately
following this session in iPhone Lab A.
It'll run until about 2 o'clock today.